---
layout: post
title: On Grace
sub: What if being good isn't the point?
---

I've spent my entire life trying to be good. And I suspect many others raised in conservative Christian families have shared my experience. We expend a great amount of effort trying to do the right things and avoid the wrong things. 

Well, let's just call that what it is: *misery.* 

We somehow have this idea that if we're good, God will like us, and if we're bad, he won't. If you're like me, you probably know that's not really true. But it can sure feel true. And ultimately, we live and function out of what we really believe in our hearts, not what we say we *know* in our heads. 

Most of my life has been a repetition of the following: I sin, repent and try to do better. I feel guilty because I messed up and resolve to try harder. But then I fail again, and again, and again, until I'm under this huge weight of stress and guilt. I feel so much shame and guilt that I don't think God could possibly love me (or at least be happy with me), so I back away. I quite trying. 

Lately, I've been realizing that that's exactly where God is trying to get me. When I quit trying to earn his favor, I begin to experience it in a very real way. 

Let me explain. 

I believe that God is sovereign in our salvation *and* our sanctification. He has planned the journey of my life and all I have to do is trust him. I play no part in what he accomplished on the cross. My sins are as far from him [as the east is from the west](http://bible.us/ps103.12.esv). In other words, they are of no concern anymore to God. 

That's a bold statement for the circles in which I was raised, but it's about to get bolder.   

What if God doesn't want anything from us? What if he just wants us to *be*. What if he just wants us to trust him, to trust that he is mighty and he is sovereign and that he has already [planned our steps](http://bible.us/ps139.16.esv). He has already taken care of our sinful mistakes. They don't matter any more. He has adopted us into his family and made us heirs of his kingdom. There is no longer any judgement or condemnation. We are his little children.

If you're a parent (especially of little children) you know how powerful that last statement can be. 

I have two little girls. Izzie (4) and Sofie (3). There is literally nothing in this world that could make me stop loving them. Sometime I find myself just staring at the details, the shape of a finger or the curve of an ear lobe, and I am overcome with love. *I don't love them for who they may become one day or because they are obedient. I love them because they're mine.* 

Let's get one thing straight, God has not placed on us the burden and weight of trying to be good. The burden of "goodness" is a [new law](http://bible.us/rom7.6.esv) we have placed on ourselves (or that has been placed on us by others). Sometimes I think God is just sitting here next to me with open arms saying, "It doesn't matter. None of it matters. I've taken care of your mistakes and screw-ups. Just be here with me." *He loves us because we are his.*

Have you ever been in a relationship or a marriage where, over time, walls were built and the vulnerability between you was lost? Have you then ever experienced those walls coming down? I have. It is the sweetest taste to experience freedom and vulnerability where before there were only walls and distance. 

I think that's what it's like with God. I have built walls, because of my own failures and shame. I have distanced myself because I'm afraid he's disappointed in me. But God doesn't care what I've done. He hasn't built any walls. He is always faithful, always loving and here next to me with open arms. All I have to do is drop the pretense and be who I am. After all, he created me as I am. And the [unique me that he created is who he loves](http://bible.us/ps139.13.esv), not the me that does everything right and doesn't do anything wrong. 

>The focus of the Bible is not the work of the redeemed but the work of the Redeemer. The Good News is his victory for us, not our “victorious Christian life.” The gospel declares that God’s final word over Christians has already been spoken: “Paid in full.” Therefore, we now live with confidence that “there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus” (Rom. 8:1).

<p class="cite"> Tullian Tchividjian</p>

Growing up, I always struggled with the Gospel being called "good news." It didn't seem very good to me. But that's because what I experienced as a child was not the Gospel, but the law. And I was crushed under its weight. 

But the Gospel! The Gospel is great news! Because what it says to us is that it we are no longer under the threat of the law or performance. Like our own children, God loves us because we are his and nothing we could ever do (or not do) could separate us from that love. 

It comes down to this. Grace is free. God is Sovereign. And his plans to love me by sanctifying me *will* come to fruition. [He promised it](http://bible.us/phil1.6.esv). All I have to do is trust him and enjoy the journey. 

